A key aspect of research on ecosystems is to identify the bottlenecks in the ecosystem stemming from innovations in technologies and business_models and to illustrate how they impact firms (Adner and Kapoor 2016; Kapoor and Furr 2015). It is also important to consider how firms may allocate resources to resolve bottlenecks in their ecosystems through R&D investments, alliances, or even integration into the activities underlying the bottleneck component (Ethiraj 2007 Adner and Kapoor 2016; Hannah 2016; Zobel et al. 2017). Other strategic choices entail choosing markets or technologies where bottlenecks are either relatively easily resolvable or where firms’ control over the bottleneck component may provide it with a source of rents (Baldwin 2018b). Finally, an important implication of the existence of bottlenecks in an ecosystem is that firms would need to develop architectural knowledge not only at the level of the product (Henderson and Clark 1990) but also at the level of the ecosystem. Such knowledge can enable firms to recognize bottlenecks and can provide an important source of competitive advantage as evidence through Edison’s success with electric lighting (Hughes 1993).
When entrepreneurs begin the process of organizing their new_ventures, they encounter contexts in which other people—vendors, investors, employees, customers, regulators, and so forth—already have their own expectations concerning entrepreneurship and the practices, processes, and products they will be offered ([ 5]). Such expectations will constrain, to some extent, entrepreneurial creativity and innovation. Of course, those expectations might also educate entrepreneurs by showing them what they are supposed to do, depending on the context. Many of these expectations come from institutions, which are collections of stable rules and roles with a corresponding set of meanings that constrain actions ([20]), leading humans to select activities based on their appropriateness, rather than on more technical but potentially less appropriate criteria ([14]).
Capitalism is based on the generation of value. Customers can develop customer value by doing it themselves (insourcing), which is popular in B2B markets. While this is incredibly effective, internal turf difficulties, transfer pricing issues, and distributing the surplus generated by value_creation among multiple internal business units may make it inefficient. When a client outsources value_creation operations to independent contractors and suppliers, value in exchange is created. The supplier business benefits from the discipline of competitive pricing in unfettered marketplaces since it drives cost efficiency. Companies that are unable to create value are doomed to fail as a result of constructive destruction. While market efficiency may exist, it may also result in market failures or partial failures in terms of ignoring and serving particular portions of society due to affordability and accessibility concerns.
"The business environment is rapidly changing for NTBFs; hence, the business_model must be adapted to changes in the environment to ensure that competitive advantage is sustained (Chesbrough, 2010; Cosenz and Noto, 2018). Moreover, for the new firm to commercialise its technology (product or service), several components need to function together (Dmitriev et al., 2014). For example, founders need to identify customer segments and their needs, determine the benefits of using the firm’s technology, and identify and confirm revenue streams to capture value (Magretta, 2002; Teece, 2010). Several components of a business_model have been discussed and elaborated on by extant research. However, the ones most discussed are linked to how firms create, deliver, and capture value (Chesbrough and Rosenbloom, 2002; Osterwalder et al., 2005; Teece, 2010). These models include the value_proposition, customer segment and relationships, distribution channels, partner networks, key resources and assets, and revenue and cost structures. The value_proposition is centred as the ‘heart’ of the business_model with customer-related activities and revenues as front-office activities, and resources, partners, and costs as back-office activities.
The education sector will be highly impacted by the developments in disruptive Information and Communications Technologies, and corresponding innovative changes in pedagogy. In the near future, traditional college and university education connected with high income generating professional courses like science, engineering, and management studies may well lose its primacy. Many mediocre and economically weaker students may prefer to enroll in cheaper online distance courses leaving only the meritorious and well-off students to pursue the expensive higher education delivered by brick and mortar colleges and universities. Consequently, many brick-and-mortar colleges and universities may not be required and get phased out SMEs nowadays are pretty used to the term "digital transformation" as a key term to express organizational changes influenced by digital_technologies. The digital transformation that induces a radical change in organizations is expressed by all of the scientific articles, while its concrete definition is not been widely accepted till now. The acceleration in digital technological development, together with the increasing globalization of associated economies, is increasing innovation cycles for products and services. It is creating new business_models and transforming operational, management, and organizational structures of existing businesses and consumers. Many companies, especially SMEs, struggle to engage in a coherent global digital transformation process, despite the importance of digitalization.
The terms "digitalization" and "digitization" are frequently used interchangeably. Both terms refer to the same object, although they mean different things. Digitization is the translation of analog information into digital forms, whereas digitalization is the arrangement of multiple and various social life areas via digital communication technology. Digitalization technologies consist of artificial intelligence (AI), robots, automation, the Internet of Things, big_data, 3D printing, autonomous vehicles, drones, cyber weapons. dDgitalization refers to the use of any digitalization technology on any part of the commercialization activities of companies.
Much of the current research in this area is explanatory or conceptual rather than empirical, and is based on case studies from several disciplines (for example, strategy, management, innovation, and informatics). An initial search on Google Scholar yields an astonishing number of suggested papers for search terms like "digitalization," which has 58,100 links, "digital disruption," which has 5,570 connections, and "digital transformation," which has 25,500. In addition to the availability of published studies, technology vendors are increasingly focusing a lot of emphasis on digital technology advances. Both research and practice are lacking in a solid foundation of previously published findings to guide and underpin the future studies of new digital_technologies.
Technology is having a critical factor for business_models in the tourism industry and explains the power of digitalization (denotes the application of computer-based technology)in the tourism sector. Technology has replaced the current way of business operations. Digitalization has introduced advancements related to tourist behavior transitioning from sitting and searching to roaming. It has provided the sources of information, content from various users, and connection establishment among various platforms. In tourism, online booking systems, e-tourism tickets, and platform-based businesses are the results of digitalization in this sector. In this way, we can see digital solutions for a few firms and or it has created an entirely new business segment for new entrants.